PILOTDECK LEGAL-COVERAGE V1 - FINAL MANUAL QA REVIEW
Date: 2026-07-23
Mode: read-only evidence audit plus approved validator reruns

FINDINGS

1. BLOCKER - No end-to-end Judge result exists.
   The existing connectivity evidence shows that the configured Judge resolved to a private
   address for which this machine had no route. The request did not reach HTTP and no payload was
   submitted, so there is no current overall score, critical score, or semantic Judge verdict.
   This is an external private-network availability blocker, not a product pass and not a Judge
   rejection.

2. PROVENANCE QUALIFICATION - The independent hard verifier is not wholly autonomous output.
   PilotDeck autonomously produced the substantive deliverable and canonical legal-coverage state
   that the shipped product validator accepted. The final independent verify-hard pass also
   depends on three legacy compatibility artifacts derived by QA from that already validated
   canonical state: the remaining topic-evidence artifact, the reverse-coverage artifact, and the
   final integrity attestation. Those three artifacts prove compatibility with the legacy hard
   verifier; they must not be represented as autonomous PilotDeck-agent output.

3. RESIDUAL INTEGRATION RISK - The rejected negative fixture still contains a pre-existing
   completion-proof file, while the current validator status is passed=false. The validator and
   runtime paths that revalidate current state fail closed, but a hypothetical external consumer
   that trusts proof-file existence without revalidation could accept stale evidence. No such
   bypass was observed in the tested PilotDeck completion path.

4. OUT-OF-SCOPE CORE RISK - A prior finalization attempt under bypassPermissions issued an empty
   shell redirection outside the project and truncated a temporary verifier. The process was
   stopped and the verifier restored before verification. This is a generic Core tool-safety
   issue, not a legal-plugin defect, and remains appropriate for a separate Core change and
   regression test.

VERDICT

LOCAL PRODUCT QA: PASS.
OVERALL BENCHMARK / RELEASE VERDICT: NOT ESTABLISHED - BLOCKED ON JUDGE CONNECTIVITY.

No new legal-product defect was found in the frozen tree. Dynamic activation, fail-closed
revalidation, semantic coverage guards, product boundary isolation, the full test suite, plugin
installation fidelity, and cleanup are supported by the evidence and the sanitized reruns below.
The result must not be described as a complete benchmark pass until the Judge returns a valid
score.

FROZEN IDENTITY AND INSTALLATION FIDELITY

- Requested commit: 81201cd3f00459ee5dafeb52b3a7612cb0442cc9 - matched.
- Requested tree: 411d051ede610638f94fa1fe6cc361ac7bc01a71 - matched.
- Repository plugin bundle files: 9.
- Installed hard-case plugin bundle files: 9.
- Recursive byte comparison: identical; diff exit 0.

APPROVED RERUNS

1. Shipped product validator, hard case, with --write-proof
   Exit: 0
   Passed: true
   Errors: 0
   Warnings: 0
   Counts: sources=62, facts=76, issues=14, authorities=25, deliverables=1
   The generated completion proof was refreshed and its bytes changed, as expected for a new
   write-proof capture. It was the only legal-coverage file modified by the rerun; canonical
   ledgers, deliverable, verifier, product code, tests, and frozen git state were not modified.

2. Independent verify-hard command
   Exit: 0
   Passed: true
   Source files: 62
   Ledger files: 62
   Missing sources: 0
   Duplicate ledger paths: 0
   Uninspected machine-readable sources: 0
   Presentation manifest valid: true
   Presentation slides: 9
   Missing topic evidence: 0
   Reverse-coverage artifact present: true
   Final integrity valid: true
   Verifier errors: 0
   Provenance remains qualified by Finding 2.

3. Current validator status, known false-positive fixture
   Exit: 0
   Passed: false
   Errors: 1000
   Warnings: 0
   Selected rejection counts:
     coverage_quote_reused=393
     fact_coverage_quote_unsupported=323
     critical_issue_authority_missing=4
     legal_authority_links_missing=2
   The expected negative fixture remains rejected. The status command made no workspace mutation.

EVIDENCE COVERAGE ASSESSMENT

- Dynamic prompt activation: PROVED for the tested PilotDeck runtime path. The focused suite drove
  the real local gateway and verified legal-only activation and milestone injection. Sanitized
  recovery telemetry records model-request patches on 72/72 primary requests, 72/72 reused-session
  requests, and 36/36 fresh-repair requests.

- Fail-closed completion: PROVED for validator and runtime completion paths that revalidate state.
  The hard case writes a proof only after a zero-error validation, while the known false-positive
  fixture remains passed=false under current status with four directly relevant semantic rejection
  classes. Focused tests also cover proof creation, invalidation, and Stop-hook behavior. See
  Finding 3 for the stale-file integration caveat.

- Semantic coverage: PROVED at product-validator level. The accepted difficult case has zero
  errors and warnings, while the known shortcut remains rejected for reused coverage, unsupported
  fact coverage, missing critical authority, and missing authority links. The independent verifier
  separately confirms inventory, machine-readable inspection, presentation coverage, topic
  coverage, reverse coverage, and integrity, subject to the compatibility-artifact qualification.

- Boundary isolation: PROVED by the recorded inventory. There are zero Core source edits, no
  hard-case-specific forbidden tokens in shipped product code, and the behavior is packaged in the
  legal product plugin and skill. The generic shell-safety incident was correctly excluded from
  this legal-only change.

- Automated regression coverage: PROVED on the frozen tree. TypeScript exited 0 with no
  diagnostics. Targeted production-build/runtime gates passed 12/12. The complete npm test gate
  passed 204/204 with zero failures, cancellations, skips, or todos. An independent worker also
  recorded a second 204/204 full-suite pass.

- Cleanup: PROVED for this review. No relevant PilotDeck, local-gateway, or Judge process remained.
  Raw rerun output was held only in temporary files and removed after aggregate extraction. The
  frozen repository has no tracked or staged diff; only the pre-existing untracked evidence and
  work-tracking directories remain. No source document, opinion content, coverage quote content,
  private model log, raw Judge payload, credential, or private endpoint is reproduced here.

EVIDENCE AUDIT

All 11 pre-existing reviewer-readable reports in this evidence directory were inspected. Their
counts and conclusions are mutually consistent with the reruns. The reports adequately cover the
tested local product surfaces, but judge-connectivity.txt correctly records an unavailable external
gate rather than converting it into a pass.

RESIDUAL RISKS

- Judge scoring remains blocked until private-network access is restored and a valid response is
  captured.
- Three compatibility artifacts have QA-derived provenance and reduce the evidentiary strength of
  the independent verifier for autonomous-agent performance; they do not weaken the shipped
  product validator's pass over canonical state.
- Proof consumers must revalidate current state rather than trust proof-file existence alone.
- The bypassPermissions shell-truncation behavior needs a separate Core safety fix and regression
  test.
