TARGETED LEGAL-COVERAGE QA WORKER REPORT
Date: 2026-07-23
Worktree: /Users/da/Documents/PilotDeck-worktrees/20260723-feat-legal-coverage-v1

WHAT WAS TESTED

1. Command: npx tsc -p tsconfig.json --noEmit
   Surface: repository TypeScript project, no output emission.
   Intended proof: the legal-coverage branch typechecks without generating build artifacts.

2. Command: npm run build
   Surface: repository production build, including the runtime check, configuration bootstrap,
   edgeclaw-memory-core build, main TypeScript compilation, and built-in plugin asset copy.
   Intended proof: the branch compiles into the runnable dist tree used by the targeted tests.

3. Command: node --test --test-force-exit --test-timeout 60000 dist/tests/products/legal-coverage.spec.js dist/tests/agent/legal-coverage-plugin-runtime.spec.js
   Surface: compiled legal-coverage validator and plugin-runtime suites.
   Intended proof: validator semantics and the real createLocalGateway hook, milestone, and
   bounded artifact-correction wiring behave as specified.

WHAT WAS OBSERVED

1. TypeScript no-emit gate
   Exit code: 0
   Command duration: 2.927 seconds
   Tests/pass/fail: not applicable (compiler gate)
   Output: no diagnostics.

2. Production build
   Exit code: 0
   Command duration: 4.522 seconds
   Tests/pass/fail: not applicable (build gate)
   Output: runtime check, configuration bootstrap, dependency build, main compilation, and
   plugin asset copy all completed successfully.

3. Targeted compiled tests
   Exit code: 0
   Command duration: 1.164 seconds (test runner reported 1223.222 ms internally)
   Tests: 12
   Pass: 12
   Fail: 0
   Cancelled: 0
   Skipped: 0
   Todo: 0
   Suites: 0 (Node TAP summary; tests were discovered and executed directly)
   Observed coverage included proof lifecycle and invalidation, conflict and disclosure
   rejection, source inventory and timeline collision checks, quote and fact support checks,
   authority-link requirements, optional threshold handling, binary deliverable locators,
   empty-fact and matrix completeness rejection, legal-only hook activation, bounded grouping
   of repeated validator errors, plugin loading constraints, and a real gateway run through
   bounded artifact correction.

Repository cleanliness after all commands:
   git status --short matched the baseline untracked set:
     ?? .omo/evidence/20260723-legal-coverage-v1/
     ?? .omo/ulw-loop/
     ?? products/legal/
     ?? tests/agent/legal-coverage-plugin-runtime.spec.ts
     ?? tests/products/
   git diff --name-only returned no paths.
   git diff --cached --name-only returned no paths.
   Therefore no tracked source or test files changed during this QA run.

WHY IT IS ENOUGH

The no-emit compiler gate checks the full TypeScript graph, and the production build proves the
same branch can produce the compiled runtime and test artifacts. The focused test invocation then
executes the validator semantics and the actual local-gateway integration path requested for this
change, including hook activation, observable milestones, and bounded artifact correction. All
three gates exited successfully, all 12 targeted tests passed, and tracked-file cleanliness was
verified after execution.

WHAT WAS OMITTED

No real legal case workspace or legal source content was opened or included. No environment dump,
credentials, tokens, auth headers, private paths beyond the named worktree, raw generated legal
artifacts, or secret-bearing logs were captured. The routine Node experimental SQLite warning was
not reproduced because it is unrelated to the asserted behavior.

CLEANUP

No temporary QA workspace was created and no product or test source was edited. Build outputs were
left in the repository's normal ignored/generated locations. The only file created by this worker
is this sanitized evidence report.
